- We'll be using Kustomize
to manage the YAML configuration files
for the Kubernetes resources in our application.
Those manifests are located inside the deploy project
within our exercise files.
These files are also stored in the deploy repository
over on GitHub.
Let's open up this directory inside a terminal
to explore Kustomize.
When working with Kubernetes,
there's often slight variations between the resources
we need to deploy on the different clusters
for each environment.
For example, in this manifest, which defines Ingress routes
that direct traffic coming into the cluster,
we need to use different values for the host property
for staging and production.
The staging cluster we'll use staging.landon.linkedin.io,
and the production cluster,
we'll use the value that we see here,
landon.linkedin.io.
Kustomize allows us to use the same YAML configuration files
for these environments.
However we can apply small kustomizations
where they differ.
Let's take a look at the structure
of our Kustomize directory to see how this works.
Inside of the directory we have the base folder.
It defines all of the resources that we need to include
in both environments.
So here we'll find things like deployments or services.
You'll also notice this kustomization.yaml file.
Let's go ahead and we'll take a look at that.
Inside of the kustomization.yaml file,
we define all of the resources that we'll need
to run our application.
So here you see all those YAML files
that we defined in the base.
Now if we go back and take another look
at our Kustomize directory, you'll see these overlays,
one for production and one for staging.
And then each overlay has its own kustomization.yaml file
that it uses to apply small variations for the environment.
Let's take a look at the kustomization
for our staging overlay.
Within it you'll notice that it indicates
it uses all of the resources that we saw in the base,
but it does provide its own kustomization
for the app-ingress.yaml file.
Let's take a look at that.
If we scroll up within the file,
you'll notice that the staging overlay
provides its own value for the host property.
So here's the kustomization we'll make
for the staging overlay.
When we build this overlay,
it's going to lay this configuration on top of what we saw
in the base.
Here, let me show you how it works.
We'll go ahead and use Kustomize
to build our staging overlay,
and let's watch what happens here.
First you'll notice that a configuration was generated
that contained all of the manifests
we found within the base.
Now if we scroll down here to take a look at the Ingress,
you'll see that the kustomization for the staging overlay
was applied, there we see staging.landon.linkedin.io.
So you can use Kustomize to apply these kustomizations
for each environment,
but Kustomize can also be used
to update the versions of container images
that are set within our resources.
Let me show you how this works.
If we scroll up a little bit,
here we're going to find a deployment for a room service.
Within this deployment, we specify a container image
that's going to run inside of a pod,
and you'll notice we set the version of that image to one.
Using Kustomize, we can update this container image version.
Let's go ahead and I'll copy the name
of our fully qualified container image
and then I'll show you how this works.
So I'm going to first navigate into the base directory,
and then here we can use Kustomize
to update the container image version.
To do that we use the edit set image command,
then we provide the name of our image
followed by an equal sign,
then the name of the image we would like,
followed by the version we would like.
Now here I'm going to use 22 to make it obvious.
Now let's go ahead and we'll update the container image,
and now let's take a look at what happened.
If we look at the kustomization.yaml file in our base,
you'll notice it now includes a kustomization
we applied to update the container image,
there it sets it to 22.
Now let's go ahead and we'll use Kustomize
to build our base.
If we take a look at the generated YAML,
you'll notice that our container image
has been updated to 22 for our room service deployment.
It's much easier to manage
all these resource configuration files
for our different environments using Kustomize.
And as an added bonus,
Argo CD works with it right out of the box.
We'll be using it as part of our CD pipeline
to help manage the container images
that are defined within our YAML configuration files
for each cluster.